---
layout: layout.njk
title: Animation
---

Animation is a wonderful medium to tell stories, from the illustrated magic of hand drawn to the dimensional technology of CGI and the tactile whimsy of stop motion.  This medium tends to be overlooked by some people in favour of live action movies, but animation can do so many things live action can only dream of.  Some of my favourite animated movies are The Mitchells vs. The Machines and the Inside Out movies.

The Mitchells vs the Machines is a 2021 film produced by Sony Pictures Animation and released by Netflix.  The story follows a film-loving teenager named Katie Mitchell and her family as they embark on a road trip to take her to her film college.  However, things take a hard left turn when a new line of robots from the big tech corporation PAL Labs turns against humanity and start an AI uprising. Lead by a vengeful Siri-like virtual assistant named PAL, the robots plan to stuff all humans into rockets and send them into space forever.  With all of humanity in peril, it's up to the Mitchells to stop PAL and save the world.  This movie has wonder themes of the importance of family, the role of technology in our modern lives, and the wonders of human creativity.  The animation is also spectacular, with a "painted 3D" style inspired by Sony's previous animated outing, Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse.  The characters are written as flawed individuals, but that's what makes them well-written; after all, no one's perfect!  On top of all that, the music by Mark Mothersbaugh has a nice blend of natural and electronic music, representing the humanity and technology of the movie.  Overall, The Mitchells vs. The Machines is a fun movie for the whole family.

Inside Out is a movie by Pixar that was released in 2015 and got a sequel, Inside Out 2, in 2024.  These movies centre on the personified emotions of a young girl named Riley as they help her navigate through life from her headspace.  The first movie focuses on Joy and Sadness as they navigate Riley's headspace to find their way back to Headquarters after a mishap involving a sad memory.  Meanwhile, Anger, Disgust, and Fear have to keep Riley in check and hope her family or friends don't notice.  The second movie has Riley as a teenager in high school, and her mind gets more emotions as a result: Envy, Emberassment, Ennui, and Anxiety.  Anxiety wants the old emotions gone so she can make new plans for Riley's future and a new Sense of Self.  Thus, the old emotions have to find a way to stop Anxiety and restore Riley's Sense of Self.  My favourite thing about these movies is how they teach the importance of all emotions, even the "negative" ones.  There may be antagonists, but no emotion is ever a "villain"; they're just trying to do their job.  Overal, these movies are great emotional rolercoasters of stories.